All right we're getting closer and closer to having our up look like this.
But we clearly see that we have a search box here.
So in this video we're going to work on having this interactive looking back at her app.
We see that.
Well we definitely need a title and the search box so let's create that.
If I go to index.
Yes I think now that we're officially building an app instead of having the Carlist component here we
should have one big component called app and this app will be the father of all our children all our
components.
Let's do that let's build the app component first.
And this app component again will import re-act from re-act
and app will equal
the card list component whereas we can just copy and put in here and again changing this to table.
We want to import
the card list component
and we also want to have our robots actually imported in here.
So we have access to it.
And then finally we now just want to render the app component so we can just bring this back to the
way it was.
We save we need to obviously export our app.
So we'll say X sports default app save this let's go back.
Yeah.
Everything is still working.
Now within this Carlist we also have a header.
So we'll do our one they'll say Roble friends
and again remember that we need to return just one single parent.
So we need to do something like a div to wrap it
and I need to close this H-1 tag
right.
I have my robot friends title and we also need a search box and also H-1 was easy and we now have to
build a component for it.
It sounds like we probably want to create a search box component for this app so let's do that.
I'm one to say import search box from a file that will create called search box we will create a new
file.
And this file will have imports re-act from re-act
and the search box.
We'll have a function that returns.
Let's think about what it returns.
Well it definitely returns an input right.
That is type of search.
And let's also have a placeholder.
Let's close this and placeholder.
That says Search robots.
We close this and save and we have to export Export default search box save compile successfully.
All right we have our search box.
But while it's not searching anything right now
let's add this on our new line just so it looks nicer and it's always a good idea just in case you want
to add more things to the search box to wrap everything in a div.
So I'm going to do that right now.
And this day we'll just have a class name of padding to again using Tatiana's and with the input we
can do a class name.
And I just know these look good so I'm just going to copy and paste.
You're just padding her with background.
Light is blue.
If I do this and let's go back.
All right.
This looks better.
We want to center everything.
So maybe in the app we can just add a class name equals to tax center.
See if that works.
There you go.
That's much better.
I like this or at.
Now how can we make this interactive.
Up until now we've just had this static web sites but real web sites are interactive right.
Let's think about this logically.
We have an app.
We have a search box and we have a card list but the search box component needs to communicate with
the Carlist and same with the Carlist Carlist.
Nice to know what is in the search box so that it can filter out robots accordingly.
Let's go back to our image that we have of one way data flow looking at this.
We have the app component and then the card list component that has cards and then the search box component
that doesn't have any children now.
But in order for these two to communicate we have a one way data flow that is they need to send their
information to their parent and the parent tells them what to do.
Now how can we do that.
Up until now we just had some data that we just trickled down but we never had it where one of the children
had to modify data or communicate with a neighbor
will in order to do this.
Re-act has an idea of something called state up until now we learned about props such as properties
that we keep passing down but we've never changed them because react just read the props.
If I go to Carlist it just reset props that are receives and it just renders something and this a one
way data flow is really nice because this card list is a pure function it's receives an input and then
it always returns the same output.
So if robots are always the same it's always going to return the same thing.
It's deterministic pure functions and it's something that we've talked about before and this is a really
really good thing.
These components are what's called pure components and some even call it dumb components.
It just means that they don't really need to know about anything other than the fact that they're pure
functions that receive something and return something.
And this is really nice because we always know what this is going to look like.
And that's what we had up until this point.
But now we have to worry about something other than props props never change props are always just inputs
that we get and we've never modified them.
But in this case we need a memory in our app we need this to communicate with this and also change and
update accordingly.
And that's what state is in re-act state and you'll hear this in computer programming a lot simply means
the description of your app state is simply an object an object that describes your application.
And this state which describes our application is the robots and whatevers entered in the search box
and state is able to change.
We're able to change the value of the search box the value of the input and we're able to change what
robot's array means.
What gets displayed.
This is a rule that you just have to remember.
Props are simply things that come out of state.
So a parent feeds state into a child component and as soon as the child components component receives
a state it's a property that child can never changed that property the parent just tells it what the
state is and the child we see it as robots.
So the first thing we need to do is to start being able to use state in our app the description of what
our state should be.
So let's just do a constant state for now and show you that our state needs to have a robot's array
and it needs to have let's call it search field.
And this is just whatever our search field needs.
But in order to use state we have to go back to our original way that we created Riak components if
you remember this when we first did create re-act up we create a class and we do that by saying X sport
default or export
X Stenz or react Daut component.
It extends the component class and again we can use shorthand here and just say so now we can just remove
reac from here.
And this always has a render function that has to return something which is this
again is just the syntax that you have to get used to.
Save this.
And I made a mistake here instead of export this should say class.
So the class app extends component and then we do export.
Default app.
So again we're just declaring a class I save and we just have something that says state is assigned
a value but never used That's because that's pretty true.
We don't use it.
So how can we add state will react.
We simply do a constructor.
You might remember this from when we spoke about objects and this constructor and here we can declare
the state.
We simply say this dot state equals an end here we just put whatever we want our state to have.
So if I saved this I get this is not allowed before super.
Again something that you might remember from the advanced objects video in order to use this.
We have to do this weird thing where we call super which calls the constructor of component.
If I do this and save everything's working fine.
And now we have our state which is robots and search field and this state as I've said before is what
describes or app These are the things that can change and that's what it is state is something that
can change and affect our app and they usually live.
The parent component the component that is the parent that just kind of passes state to different components.
But now I can access robots not from here but from this dot state DOT robots.
And again just react Sendak's say you'll have to get used to.
All right so everything is working as expected.
And do you see that our state which is robots is now passed down as props so card list accepts robots
as props even though in the app.
Yes.
It's a state and like I said because app now owns states that includes robots.
It's allowed to change it.
Now the way we can communicate them we have these two valleys and ideally in the search box I have something
called on search change which again is a function that I'm just going to make up.
This is just a random name that I've created.
And on search change I want to say that every time the input changes just like we did with Dom manipulation
we get an event and within this event I'm going to console Dalt log this event
created a function and I want.
Any time this input changes to trigger console all but.
So we can pass this actually now I can say search change is on search change but again because this
is an object we have to say this dot so that it says this which is the app Daut answers change is searching
if I save this and now go to the search box I now have search change
as a function so I can just say just like an HMO would remember and him all hucking do on change T.M..
It's an event.
We just listening to any time the input changes.
I can say on change equals
search change.
Let's see if that works.
I'm getting no errors.
If I go back to my app I open up the console and I type in something like that.
I'm getting the event and this is just something you have to remember is that with an event we always
have event thought target value which should give us the value of the search.
Let's save that and type in something.
Look at that we're now noticing the difference as we type.
So let's go over one more time what just happened.
And again I know this is tough.
This took me a while to get when we first started but this diagram really explains it well.
I have my app component.
My search box and my cardless any time the search box changes on change I'm going to run the function
I'm going to call this function.
And the way we call it is we add this.
Remember how when we did Dom events we defined the function and then every time the event happens it
would call it.
So we are saying every time the onchange event is triggered call the search change function.
And if you remember the search change function which is a prop is the on search change function that
is defined in the app.
That's how we communicate with the parent.
It triggers the event the parent says help run this function.
And now this function gets Ron.
But now that I have the value of the search input I can now directly communicate that search input to
the robot's list.
But see how that works.
We can create a very.
Let's say filtered robots and this will equal the this state DOT robots and these robots which is the
array.
Again this is how we access state is going to use filter filtering array.
We give it robots and now our array will have to return a condition and the condition is going to be
robots.
Dot name and we're going to do something that we haven't seen before which is to lower case.
And this is a method that comes with all strings and it just makes everything lowercase.
And this is good for comparison so we don't have to compare capitalized or lowercase.
And if the name of robots which is now lowercase includes is another method and again it's pre-built
into javascript if it includes the search field.
And again we want to do to lower case in case.
Well in case we use capitals or lowercase it works both ways.
And there it is.
If the name of the robots in lowercase includes And this does the comparison.
If anything in the string includes two lowercase Well then only return the robots that returns true
to this.
Let's save.
And you see here the how we get the search field there because well it's part of the state.
I have to do this dot state DOT search field.
If I save this I get that.
Filter robots is assigned a value but never used.
But don't worry we can't now Konsole log this and see what we get.
By save and let's go back to our app and if I search something here I get an error.
And this is an error that is very very confusing.
It is tricky the first time.
But bear with me here.
The problem right now is that the value of this.
Well it's not referring to the app because the event happened in the input the value of this is the
input and input doesn't have state DOT robots and this is a trick that you always forget but just keep
this in mind as a rule of thumb.
With anything that comes from react so constructor and render are pre-built and react any time you make
your own methods on a component use this syntax so are functions and this makes sure that this value
is according to where it was created which is the app.
I know it's confusing.
You can read more about it.
I'll leave a resource for it.
It's a tough topic to get.
But again rule of thumb.
Use the arrows.
If I do this now and I click.
There you go.
I now get robots.
But here's the thing.
Search field right now you see that I still have 10 robots it's not really filtering anything.
And that is because my search field is always an empty string in order to update state.
Again another rule of re-act is to do this dot set state and it's again a method that comes with react
and anytime you want to change state you always do this you don't do this dot state DOT search field
equals you never do that.
You have to do this dot set.
State and within here we just say search field is and again we're using an object so a search field
is now going to be event dot target dot Valley.
If I save this and go back you see that now everything is being filtered by changing the state so that
the search field always gets updated.
And now we're filtering the robots according to the changed search field.
OK.
So one last thing looking at this.
We have the fact that filter robots is still not a sign that you're right.
If we look at this we've now communicated the search box with the OP and we have the search field constantly
changing.
So now we need to communicate it to the filtered robots what we can do is that filtered robots can now
be used as props instead of this state robots.
So let's do that.
Let's move this down here.
And now we have access to filter robots and instead of passing this stuff state to our robots we simply
pass filtered robots.
If I see this make sure the search bar is saved as well.
And now I go back I'm going to close the tab and let's shake it up.
Look at that.
We have our app working.
How cool is that.
Let's go over it one more time to show you exactly what it does.
We have our app component that has two states robots and search field and because app owns the state.
Any component that has state uses the class syntax so they can use the constructor function to create
this dot state and this state is what changes in an app.
It's what describes the app.
Remember when I said the virtual Dom is just a javascript object the virtual Dom is just a new object
that collects this entire state and re-act uses this state to render and pass them down as props to
these components so that these components that are just pure functions can just render.
And we always know that the app is going to look the same because while they're just simple pure functions
we manage this state and here the app is the only thing that can change this state.
But it can pass down things such as props.
So we passed down on the first change to the search box and the search box.
Every time there's an onchange on the input it lets the app know hey there was a change.
Run this function.
It runs the function with the event and updates the state of the search field.
To whatever we type now with the information that we have from the search box we can now communicate
to the card list and tell it Hey I wanted to filter the robots state to now have only what it includes
in the search field and instead of passing this state to our robots we just passed the filtered robots.
You might be asking yourself what robots that never really changes does it.
We always just create a new array called Filter robots and we always pass down does this need to be
part of the state.
And right now not really because we're just have a hard coded robots but when we get later on in the
course you'll see that that's not the case.
Most of the time you're getting that users are robots from another place over the internet in which
case we will need robots to change from an empty array to an array.
After we go and grab all of our users.
All right.
That was a lot.
I know I know it's a lot of information a lot of new syntax but as you can see from the few lines of
code we've built a pretty awesome app.
And the next video we're going to finish this up and finalize our app.
So it looks as pretty as this.
I'll see on that one.